README.md, before:

Buriko General Interpreter
==========================

This project aims to reverse-engineer the Ethornell Buriko General Interpreter (BGI), and create an open source re-implementation of the engine.

Currently the goal is to re-implement the engine in Javascript and make it possible to run Ethornell games in the browser.

For now, all reverse-engineering efforts are based on the version of BGI found in the Lump of Sugar visual novel Nursery Rhyme (`Ethornell - Buriko General Interpreter ver 1.64 ( build : 398.3 )`). The tools may work with other games, but you'll likely run into problems fairly quickly.

This is a clean-room reverse engineering project, and we have no intention of facilitating piracy, therefore no files from any games are included in this repository and must be acquired elsewhere. The downloader script can assist in fetching trial versions of a select few games from official sources.

Technical documentation
-----------------------

You can find technical information about the engine in the `Technical.md` file. Note that this is still a work in progress, and the file will change as we learn more about the engine.

Getting started
---------------

Note: I use Linux Mint, so these instructions only apply to Linux. If you use something else, you'll have to figure this out on your own.

Note 2: I assume `python3` is the default python interpreter on your system. It is on mine.

Before you do anything else, you need to install the various tools and dependencies needed:
```sh
apt install build-essential g++-mingw-w64-i686 nasm nodejs
pip install pefile
```

First, you should let execute the download script, so that you can get some data to work with (You only need to do this once):
```sh
cd downloader
npm install # Install dependencies
nodejs downloader.js
cd ..
```

Then you should run the patcher, so that you can generate an execution log:
```sh
cd patching
./patch.sh
cd ..
```

Finally, run the game. You should only let it run for a few seconds (try to keep it under 10 seconds). The log file is HUGE!
```sh
wine downloader/data/tayutama/tayutama.exe
```

For disassembling the executable, I use Ghidra. I'm not sure how to share my Ghidra projects, so it's not included here.

Contact
-------

You can reach me on Discord: `Cytlan#5147`

Commit message:

Added some info about the debugger and requesting help

README.md, after:

Buriko General Interpreter
==========================

This project aims to reverse-engineer the Ethornell Buriko General Interpreter (BGI), and create an open source re-implementation of the engine.

Currently the goal is to re-implement the engine in Javascript and make it possible to run Ethornell games in the browser.

For now, all reverse-engineering efforts are based on the version of BGI found in the Lump of Sugar visual novel Nursery Rhyme (`Ethornell - Buriko General Interpreter ver 1.64 ( build : 398.3 )`). The tools may work with other games, but you'll likely run into problems fairly quickly.

This is a clean-room reverse engineering project, and we have no intention of facilitating piracy, therefore no files from any games are included in this repository and must be acquired elsewhere. The downloader script can assist in fetching trial versions of a select few games from official sources.

Technical documentation
-----------------------

You can find technical information about the engine in the `Technical.md` file. Note that this is still a work in progress, and the file will change as we learn more about the engine.

Debugger
--------

To help reverse-engineering the game, we have created a debugging tool for the engine. After patching the game, the debugger is loaded and allows us to inspect threads, halt the execution and single-step through the program.

On the TODO list for the debugger: Disassembly, as well as a memory inspector for the stack and local memory.

![Screenshot of the debugger as of 2020-11-07](debugger.png)

Help wanted
-----------

Currently, I have no idea what original BGI scripts look like. Eventually we'd like to create a decompiler for the scripts, and knowing what they look like would be very helpful in creating a similar-looking result.

If you have a copy of the development tools, please send Cytlan (`Cytlan#5147` on Discord) a screenshot or two of some code, so that we can get an idea of what we should try to emulate.

Getting started
---------------

Note: I use Linux Mint, so these instructions only apply to Linux. If you use something else, you'll have to figure this out on your own.

Note 2: I assume `python3` is the default python interpreter on your system. It is on mine.

Before you do anything else, you need to install the various tools and dependencies needed:
```sh
apt install build-essential g++-mingw-w64-i686 nasm nodejs
pip install pefile
```

First, you should let execute the download script, so that you can get some data to work with (You only need to do this once):
```sh
cd downloader
npm install # Install dependencies
nodejs downloader.js
cd ..
```

Then you should run the patcher, so that you can generate an execution log:
```sh
cd patching
./patch.sh
cd ..
```

Finally, run the game. You should only let it run for a few seconds (try to keep it under 10 seconds). The log file is HUGE!
```sh
wine downloader/data/tayutama/tayutama.exe
```

For disassembling the executable, I use Ghidra. I'm not sure how to share my Ghidra projects, so it's not included here.

Contact
-------

You can reach me on Discord: `Cytlan#5147`
